---
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 Cam Coulter <git@camcoulter.com>
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
layout: post
title: "2019 in Reading"
published: true
date: 2020-01-10 08:11
categories:
- reading
tags:
- year in review
description: "Here’s what I read in 2019."
image: books-06
toc: true
---

## Introduction

Here's all the books that I read in 2019:

- <cite>Walkaway</cite> by Cory Doctorow
- <cite>Zen to Done: The Ultimate Simple Productivity System</cite> by Leo Babauta
- <cite>Uncanny Magazine Issue 26</cite> edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
- <cite>Dreams & Nightmares 110</cite> edited by David C. Kopaska-Merkel <i>(poetry)</i>
- <cite>The Only Harmless Great Thing</cite> by Brooke Bolander
- <cite>Dreams & Nightmares 111</cite> edited by David C. Kopaska-Merkel <i>(poetry)</i>
- <cite>Born to the Blade: Season 1</cite> by Michael R. Underwood, Marie Brennan, Malka Older, Cassandra Khaw
- <cite>A People's History of the United States</cite> by Howard Zinn
- <cite>Acadie</cite> by Dave Hutchinson
- <cite>The Stars Change</cite> by Mary Anne Mohanraj
- <cite>A People’s Future of the United States</cite> edited by Victor LaValle and John Joseph Adams
- <cite>The Lamb Will Slaughter the Lion</cite> by Margaret Killjoy
- <cite>Vulture Bones Issue 4</cite> edited by B R Sanders
- <cite>Invisible Planets: Contemporary Chinese Science Fiction in Translation</cite> translated and edited by Ken Liu
- <cite>If This Goes On</cite> edited by Cat Rambo
- <cite>The Grace of Kings</cite> by Ken Liu
- <cite>Miranda in Milan</cite> by Katharine Duckett
- <cite>Uncanny Magazine Issue 27</cite> edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
- <cite>Legalizing LGBT Families: How the Law Shapes Parenthood</cite> by Amanda K. Baumle and D'Lane R. Compton
- <cite>Radicalized</cite> by Cory Doctorow
- <cite>Rocket Fuel: Some of the Best from Tor.com Non-Fiction</cite> edited by Bridget McGovern and Chris Lough
- <cite>The Wall of Storms</cite> by Ken Liu
- <cite>Do Not Go Quietly</cite> edited by Jason Sizemore & Lesley Conner
- <cite>A Whirlwind Tour of Python</cite> by Jake VanderPlas
- <cite>Uncanny Magazine Issue 28</cite> edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
- <cite>Plays</cite> by Roswitha of Gandersheim
- <cite>Free Software Free Society (Third Edition)</cite> by Richard Stallman
- <cite>Sex and the Constitution: Sex, Religion, and Law from America's Origins to the Twenty-First Century</cite> by Geoffrey R. Stone
- <cite>The Black Tides of Heaven</cite> by JY Yang
- <cite>Always Outnumbered, Always Outgunned</cite> by Walter Mosley
- <cite>The Red Threads of Fortune</cite> by JY Yang
- <cite>The 2019 Rhysling Anthology</cite> edited by David C. Kopaska-Merkel <i>(poetry)</i>
- <cite>Our Super Adventure: Video Games and Pizza Parties</cite> by Sarah Graley & Stef Purenins <i>(comics)</i>
- <cite>Uncanny Magazine Issue 29</cite> edited by Lynne M. Thomas and Michael Damian Thomas
- <cite>In an Absent Dream</cite> by Seanan McGuire
- <cite>So Good They Can’t Ignore You</cite> by Cal Newport
- <cite>The Wild Dead</cite> by Carrie Vaughn
- <cite>Range: Why Generalists Triumph in a Specialized World</cite> by David Epstein <i>(skim read & took notes)</i>
- <cite>Dragon Pearl</cite> by Yoon Ha Lee
- <cite>Algorithmic Shapeshifting</cite> by Bogi Takács <i>(poetry)</i>
- <cite>Uncanny Magazine Issue 30: Disabled People Destroy Fantasy!</cite> edited by Katharine Duckett, Nicolette Barischoff, and Lisa M. Bradley
- <cite>The Second Mountain: The Quest for a Moral Life</cite> by David Brooks
- <cite>This Is How You Lose the Time War</cite> by Amal El-Mohtar and Max Gladstone
- <cite>The Raven Tower</cite> by Ann Leckie
- <cite>Atomic Habits: An Easy & Proven Way to Build Good Habits & Break Bad Ones</cite> by James Clear
- <cite>Unicorn on a Roll: Another Phoebe and Her Unicorn Adventure</cite> by Dana Simpson <i>(comics)</i>
- <cite>The Truth About Forever</cite> by Sarah Dessen
- <cite>Unicorn vs. Goblins: Another Phoebe and Her Unicorn Adventure</cite> by Dana Simpson <i>(comics)</i>
- <cite>The Fifth Season</cite> by N.K. Jemisin
- <cite>Unicorn Crossing: Another Phoebe and Her Unicorn Adventure</cite> by Dana Simpson <i>(comics)</i>
- <cite>Phoebe and Her Unicorn in The Magic Storm</cite> by Dana Simpson <i>(comics)</i>

I also read a good chunk of short fiction. I'll have another post coming soon in which I shout out my favorite short stories originally published in 2019. But for now, let's review the highlights of the books that I read last year.

## <cite>Born to the Blade</cite>: Season 1

This was my first venture into the world of [Serial Box](https://www.serialbox.com). I [really enjoyed]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2019-03-09-Recent-Reading %}#born-to-the-blade-season-1-by-michael-r-underwood-marie-brennan-malka-older-cassandra-khaw) this story. I feel a little burned on Serial Box now, though, because this season ended on a cliffhanger, and it looks like there's not going to be a season 2. I would like to read [<cite>The Vela</cite>](https://www.serialbox.com/serials/the-vela) from Serial Box, but I don't want to start it until I know it gets some sort of resolution.

## Favorite Novels

* <cite>Walkaway</cite> by Cory Doctorow: a fun and fascinating novel about the end of capitalism and the end of death. [I absolutely loved it.]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2019-03-09-Recent-Reading %}#walkaway-by-cory-doctorow)
* <cite>The Grace of Kings</cite> and <cite>The Wall of Storms</cite> by Ken Liu: Just wow. These books are stunning achievements. I'm dying to read book three in this series. More of my thoughts [here]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2019-07-20-Recent-Reading %}#the-grace-of-kings-and-the-wall-of-storms-by-ken-liu).
* <cite>The Wild Dead</cite> by Carrie Vaugh: a tremendously fun and smart post-apocalyptic murder mystery. It's a sequel to [<cite>Bannerless</cite>]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-11-01-Reading %}#bannerless-by-carrie-vaughn), which I also loved.
* <cite>The Raven Tower</cite> by Ann Leckie: This is Ann Leckie's new book. Therefore, it is superb.
* <cite>The Fifth Season</cite> by N.K. Jemisin: I now understand why this series won all the Hugos. I am really looking forward to reading the next two books in the trilogy.

## Favorite Novellas

Two standout novellas that I read last year were <cite>In an Absent Dream</cite> by Seanan McGuire and <cite>The Stars Change</cite> by Mary Anne Mohanraj.

<cite>In an Absent Dream</cite> is the latest book in McGuire's Wayward Children series. This book was wonderful. The series is phenomenal. Here are my thoughts on the first three books in the series: [<cite>Every Heart a Doorway</cite>]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2016-10-12-Every-Heart-a-Doorway %}), [<cite>Down Among the Sticks and Bones</cite>]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2017-09-25-Reading %}#down-among-the-sticks-and-bones-by-seanan-mcguire), and [<cite>Beneath the Sugar Sky</cite>]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2018-02-08-Reading %}#beneath-the-sugar-sky-by-seanan-mcguire).

<cite>The Stars Change</cite> is amazing. [Check here]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2019-03-09-Recent-Reading %}#the-stars-change-by-mary-anne-mohanraj) for my thoughts on it.

## Comics!

<cite>Our Super Adventure: Video Games and Pizza Parties</cite> by Sarah Graley & Stef Purenins was delightful. If you're unfamiliar with their cute, geeky diary comic [<cite>Our Super Adventure</cite>](https://www.oursuperadventure.com/), you should definitely check it out.

I've also been reading Dana Simpson's [<cite>Phoebe and Her Unicorn</cite>](https://www.gocomics.com/phoebe-and-her-unicorn) books. Again, if you haven't read these, you gotta check them out. This comic series rivals (and honestly I enjoy more than) <cite>Calvin and Hobbes</cite> and <cite>The Peanuts</cite>. I particularly loved <cite>Phoebe and Her Unicorn in The Magic Storm</cite>, which was a graphic novel rather than a collection of individual strips.

Related, you should also definitely be following [<cite>Pepper & Carrot</cite>](https://www.peppercarrot.com/), a gorgeous and funny web comic about a young witch and her cat.

## Nonfiction Hits

Here are my favorite nonfiction reads from 2019:

* [<cite>A People’s History of the United States</cite> by Howard Zinn]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2019-04-06-Peoples-History %}): the critical view of US American history that they don't teach you (but should) in school
* <cite>Sex and the Constitution: Sex, Religion, and Law from America’s Origins to the Twenty-First Century</cite> by Geoffrey R. Stone: an engaging, deeply informative, and actually really fun read all about sex, contraception, abortion, same-sex marriage, censorship, obscenity, morality, religion, and law in the US.
* <cite>The Second Mountain: The Quest for a Moral Life</cite> by David Brooks: a thoughtful and persuasive book in which David Brooks argues that lives of meaning and purpose are rooted in commitments to a spouse and a family, to a vocation, to a philosophy or faith, and to a local community.
* <cite>So Good They Can’t Ignore You</cite> by Cal Newport: an easy, interesting, and persuasive read. Somewhat counter-intuitive. Newport argues that rather than following your preexisting passions, you should instead cultivate rare and valuable skills in order to have a successful career that you enjoy.
* <cite>Atomic Habits: An Easy & Proven Way to Build Good Habits & Break Bad Ones</cite> by James Clear: an engaging, informative, and easy read all about habits. If you want to cultivate good habits, start here.
